this is the reason why you can't
monetize your social media if you don't
do these things first you will likely
never get sales on social my advice is
contrary to what you hear a lot of
experts say but a lot of those experts
haven't made any money on social you are
spending hours and hours trying to build
your social media trying to figure out
why it is you can't get people to buy
from you whatever your favorite platform
is whether it's Facebook Instagram Tick
Tock in this episode of the podcast I'm
going to share with you the five reasons
why most people will never sell on
social
hey welcome to the show and the good
news is not only going to tell you the
five things that most people are doing
wrong I'm also going to illustrate what
you need to do to get it right my name
is chalene Johnson and if you've just
tuned in for the very first time if
you're listening on a podcast app thank
you for subscribing to the podcast my
son and I host us together we have very
different opinions and perspectives
obviously I've been doing this for a lot
longer than he has 25 plus years I guess
depends on what we're talking about if
we're talking about entrepreneurship
it's 35 plus years if it's talking about
digital marketing it's probably been in
the last 15 years if it's talking about
Marketing in general yeah that's the
last 30 years my perspective is really
about helping you understand you know
once you've grown how do you get the
sale how do you grow the business how do
you Market yourself and why is it some
people are killing it on social and
others aren't
well there are some very subtle things
that unless someone is willing to like
break it down and tell you what they're
doing and what like specifically what
they're not doing because I'm very
intentional about the way I am on social
it's the foundation behind our success
in social media what I'm going to share
with you today is the foundation the
reason why I've been able to sell
literally millions and millions of
dollars using social media without
having to sell on social media I can
explain as I said there's going to be
five really important things you need to
do and I'm going to share them in the
order that you need to do them so step
one is you gotta attract people you got
to get people to follow you we have done
a ton of episodes specifically broadcast
who has the chops the receipts to show
other people how to grow on social it is
a very specific formulaic way that you
do that and if you check out this video
where he talked about how to grow on
Instagram specifically you're going to
get some amazing tips if that's your
first step is you just need to grow on
social but I will say if I'm gonna like
cut to the chase it's you gotta post
more and you gotta post the kind of
content that's attracting the person who
wants the solution you offer you've got
to attract that person so that means
your content needs to be like really
valuable to them and it's got to be
Niche related and it's probably going to
show us a little bit of who you are but
it more so it's trying to attract a
stranger remember that your feed content
the purpose of your feed content is to
attract and to entertain and to
Captivate someone who's not yet
following you so they become a follower
once they become followers then we move
on to step two step two is you just help
people you give them the opportunity to
get to know you and like you
now if you were to meet someone who
sells cars at a neighborhood party and
all they did was talk about selling
cards when you met them
would you feel like you knew them
which feel you like them absolutely not
you'd want to know even if he does sell
cars and someday or let's just say real
estate right like even if this person
does sell something that you could use
their services at some point like you
could you could buy a car from them you
could buy a house from them if all they
did when you met them when you're trying
to get to know them was talk about what
they did and also it felt like they're
trying to sell you you wouldn't like
them and you wouldn't know anything
about them that's why stories you have
to remember stories is not the place to
to sell it's not the place to keep
talking about your Niche so we want to
separate the niche goes on our feed
posts and stories is mainly about you
it's stuff that's still interesting not
just interesting like super interesting
and valuable and it's just real like I
almost don't want you to think about
this too much I almost don't want you to
worry about whether it's valuable I
almost want you to worry about if it's
interesting just friggin be you you're
more interesting than you know you are
and people need to know who you are they
need to know your personality they need
to know like what things we have in
common because when we see common traits
with people those things make us they
make our guard go down because we're
like okay we have this in common we have
the same sense of humor we have the same
sense of belief we have the same values
around fill in the blank we have the
same ideology when it comes to raising
kids whatever it is like let people know
the things that matter the most about
you that say the most about who you are
on your stories because first I have to
get to know you and until I get to know
you I can't decide if I like you there's
stages to this so first I have to like
you have to get on my radar that's your
feed post second is I'm going to get to
know you before I can figure out if I
like you you know we all have a first
impression but if you can get people to
stick around and figure out if they like
you that's the whole point of stories so
it's in our stories remember your
stories do not and I repeat your stories
do not attract new followers your
stories are where you deep in the
relationship with the people who've
already decided to follow you you're
deepening the relationship with the
people who are trying to figure out who
you are and if in fact they like you
step three and this is a big one this
one's huge this one is so big and people
don't
they just don't get it
okay get to it chalene number three is
you've got to become good for it what do
I mean by that there's that person who
you're like I need a quick recipe right
now that I can throw together and when I
show up at the party people are gonna
think you are just like this amazing
Chef there's someone you know who you
can call because they're good for it
when it comes to buying a car there's
someone you know who knows like
everything about Consumer Reports you
can call them because they're good for
it there are people you follow because
they save you time because they're
always showing you things that either
save them money or they've done a
complete review and they're honest
they're not trying to sell you anything
like you can follow them because they're
good for it there's people who I follow
on YouTube because they do Amazon hauls
all the time and I just know like I'm
gonna get the best ideas for gadgets
there are accounts that I follow that
they talk about design inspo and what
things are going out of style and how to
be ahead of the trends and like more
importantly they show you things that
look really expensive and elegant in
your home but they cost a fraction of
what you would spend at a designer
Furniture Store you get them at like
Walmart like that's someone who I follow
and I know right now you're commenting
like can you tell me who that is that
person is good for it now there's a lot
of people who post interior design stuff
home decor but they're not good for it
you know what I mean and the reason I
know this person that I follow is good
for it because I've bought I've
purchased several of the things that
she's recommended from Walmart from home
goods from Amazon and they're always
amazing whether it's like an artificial
plant that looks so freaking real or a
DIY like super simple glue these two
things together and you've got this
amazing thing that'll save you 500 like
she's good for it now here's the deal
98 of the content that she posts to her
stories is not things that she
personally benefits from like she might
share an affiliate link but it's not her
business per se her business
is interior design and she does virtual
interior design so I can hire her to be
my interior designer and the likelihood
of me doing that is very very high
because I don't have to figure out if I
can trust her she's already proven to me
that she's good for it and when I say
good for it I mean I can trust her not
just to sell me the stuff that she sells
I can trust her that she knows what I
like she knows my level of you know
inspo when it comes to design
she understands budget I trust that
she's not going to just gouge me like to
get the same look for Less that's what I
want like she's good for it like I
already TR I already know her I like her
and now I freaking trust her because
she's always posting content that's just
like helpful that she might not even
benefit from so how does that translate
to you well some of you are smart enough
you've already figured it out you're
like oh okay light bulb just went off if
you follow me on my stories Brock
obviously his objective is to grow and
grow and grow and attract people who are
specifically looking to grow on
Instagram if you're not already
following Brock Johnson there's his
Instagram handle it's Brock 11 Johnson
and you'll get great tips for growing on
Instagram he's trying to attract them
there with this feed post I however have
taken a different approach with my feed
post I'm not necessarily trying to
attract new people because I've got
almost 800 000 people I'm trying to do a
much much better job of helping them
know I'm good for it billing the trust
right so you don't always have to have
the same goals is somebody else on
Instagram your goal might be to just
grow right now but while you're growing
you should also be letting people get to
know who you are so the way that I do
that personally and I recommend you
follow me here's my Instagram handle
it's just my name at chalene Johnson
watch my stories you don't even need to
look at my feed posts watch my stories
because I'm doing this 24 7 and almost
unintentionally because it's who I am so
for those of you who you can't help but
call your friends and say okay I just
discovered the ultimate fill in the
blank mattress topper girl I just
discovered the uh most amazing book you
have to read this book you have to watch
this Netflix show you're that person
who's kind of like pushy when you find
something that's just like amazing and
you tell everyone you tell the person at
the grocery checkout if this is easy for
you
you just now need to know that you have
been given permission to talk about all
the things anything and everything that
you're like you love it you bought it
here's and I did my research here's
here's my take on it you also have to
tell people when you find things that
you've purchased or tried or watched
that you didn't like because no one
trusts someone who likes and sells
everything like I can't give take a
movie recommendation from my parents
because they love every movie
so you also have to tell people what you
didn't like you also have to sometimes
say this wasn't great and I wish I
hadn't bought it when you do that you
build trust but it's about all the
things in your life like you as a human
so stop thinking about Niche on your
stories and start being good for it
start sharing all the things and yeah
eventually you can even make money from
that because you can sign up to become
an affiliate for those things but I'm
always very careful to tell people like
I don't care if you use my link I really
don't like here it is in case you want
like a discount but please I'm just
telling you about this because I
freaking love it
now before we get to number five any of
you have gotten to this point of the
episode I want to give you like
specifics of what this looks like
because it's not just one story it's not
just one direct to camera it's not just
one screenshot
stories should be
a sequence they should come in Acts
almost like when you film an infomercial
it's 30 minutes that's one infomercial
but it's got three Acts so just about
anything where I'm sharing it whether
it's something that I benefit from or I
offer or it's something I just want to
recommend to people I always do it in a
series a series of three and it's a very
specific formula that creates engagement
builds trust and helps people get to
know me at the same time I'm becoming
good for it this formula it's super
duper simple especially when you see it
laid out example after example after
example so what I've done is created for
you actually I'm not just created for
you I'm sharing with you the exact
formula that I use so these are 50
examples of each one of the like okay so
and you'll be able to like Plug and Play
You'll literally be able to like Mad
Libs you'll write in your thing just
promise me this when you look at this by
the way that link if you want to
download the exact template that I use
is is in the show notes you can find it
beneath this video if you're watching
Youtube just click on the little
description it'll expand you'll see the
link there just click on that you'll
you'll give me your email address and
I'm going to send you 50 specific
examples that make it super easy for you
to plug in your own stuff all right
however remember this is a special
caveat when you're plugging in your own
thing
don't just plug in the thing you sell
plug in the things the all the things
that you love I know you love your
pillow I know you love your morning
coffee I know you love where you go on
the weekends look whatever it is you
love just plug it into those samples
don't use these 50 examples to just sell
your thing which leads me to number five
the biggest and most important tip it's
the one that most people miss and I
think it's the reason why we've been
able to sell literally millions of
dollars without having to advertise on
Instagram caveat we have advertised on
Instagram but without a doubt I mean
it's not even there's no question that
the amount of Revenue that I've earned
just from following this exact five step
process of monetizing my social media is
is why we are where we are today I'd
love to dial in our ads even better so
hit me up if you are someone who's like
girl I know how to crush Tick Tock ads
we're looking for people who really know
tick tock ads and you know like listen
if you're if you're the person and you
gotta have the chops reach out to us
because we're always looking for people
who are really really good at that
because that's really how you scale even
beyond what you can do in Social all
right but let me get to number five and
my advice here varies from what you're
going to hear a lot of experts share
with you when it comes to monetizing
your social media but Compare the
numbers and I'm not like saying that to
be cocky but I'm like just look at
someone who's teaching you how to sell
on Instagram and look at their numbers
compared to someone who's about to tell
you
something you've probably not heard
before and that is stop selling on
Instagram I don't sell on Instagram
don't sell on Instagram I sell in
private I explain on Instagram so I
might explain on my stories never my
feed
what it is that uh I might have that
could help you but I won't sell you
there I won't suggest that you click add
to cart from there what I will do is I
will explain enough so that the person
who's watching has the free will to say
okay this is interesting this is okay
this is what I want this is what I need
and they raise their hand they ask for
more they can do that by giving me their
email address opting into one of our
freemiums dming me and I am telling you
a couple of things number one this is
why you need an email list because when
I say sell in private I'm not meeting
with people one-on-one it's not
happening on my Instagram stories it's
not happening on my Instagram feed post
in those two places I'm inviting people
to have a more I call it private but a
more a less front-facing conversation
there are people who are on social media
who are like that's all that's all they
do they have no interest of doing more
they don't want to know more they want
the free set they want to write you know
whatever there's just people who just
consume social media to consume social
media and then those people are like I
get it
I want to work with you I want to know
what you do I I don't want the fluff I
don't want the 60 stack I don't want the
15 second lip sync video I want to know
the thing those people are really smart
some of you are those people how you
found this episode but those people are
really really smart but there's a lot
fewer of them let's face it most of the
world is not going to be successful
because they they're just
not determined they don't have a big
enough why their beliefs are off what
for whatever there's just a very small
percentage of people and you're one of
them who's like I want to know the extra
steps and so explain on social don't
sell on social explain on social so that
you can sell in private and when I say
sell I don't even know if I'm even
selling in private even in private I'm
inviting people to do a webinar to get
on my email list to do a call with us
and in those instances even then I'm not
going to sell someone anything I'm going
to explain here's what we have
it's yours if you want it here's the
price
that's explaining and then sharing an
offer
so I think we have to like stop using
the word sell and I know it's it's like
an easy word right it just means like
like let's monetize but if you stop
thinking of what you're doing as selling
that's going to diminish that like fear
and anxiety that happens when people are
like oh my God I'm selling and then you
hear their voice change and their
personality change and they get really
nervous and that makes you the consumer
or the you know the listener it makes
you nervous when you can tell someone
else is like really nervous right so
instead of thinking of it selling just
explain because I don't want anyone to
buy something that they're not ready for
or they don't need or can't help them so
I need to explain it enough because I
don't know most people well enough to
know all those things about them so I
need to explain what I have well enough
so that they can make that decision and
then I share with them an offer but it's
their decision to buy I'm not gonna sell
someone anything and I do that off of
social media which I consider you know
kind of a little bit more you can call
it private or you can call it an
elevated experience you can call it you
know some place that's not public facing
per se I hope that was helpful for you
if it was I would love to ask you to
please double check and make sure you're
subscribed we've got some great great
episodes that I think would really help
you again like I said my son and I we we
both do this podcast together I'm going
to try to teach you more operations I'm
going to try to teach you systems and
strategies and he's going to share with
you all the things you need to do to
grow your social because let's face it
it's free eyeballs and attention means
more customers hey thanks for listening
to this Edition it's my goal to be brief
to be bright to make it fun and then be
done do I need to be done with that
tagline I've been saying it now for I
think 12 years I'll take your advice am
I done with that tagline or keep it
drop a comment let me know love ya see
you soon
[Music]